Web Application Assessment Methodology
Before we begin discussing
enumeration and exploitation,
we will talk about the basic web application
penetration testing methodology.
As a first step, we should gather
information about the application.
What does the application do?
What language is it written in?
What server software is
the application running on?
The answers to these
and other basic questions
will help guide us towards our first
(or next) potential attack vector.
As with many
penetration testing disciplines,
the goal of each attempted attack
or exploit
is to increase our permissions
within the application
or pivot to another
application or target.
Each successful exploit along the way
may grant access to new functionality
or components within the application.
Enumeration of new functionality
is important each step of the way
especially since attacks
that previously failed
may succeed in a new context.
As penetration testers,
we must continue to enumerate
and adapt until we’ve exhausted
all attack avenues
or compromised the system.